# Credit Risk Classification Report

## Purpose

The Purpose of this analysis is to determine the credit worthiness of borrowers as healthy (0) or high-risk (1). This is done using a supervised learning model trained on historical lending data from a peer-to-peer lending service. The objective of this model is to produce an outcome of 0(Healthy) or 1(high-risk) to tell us wether we should give out the loan or not.

## Variables
The variables used to predict the creditworthiness of the borrower are:
   
    **Loan size**: how much they got a loan for in dollar amount
    
    **Interest rate**: the inerest rate of that loan
    
    **Income**: the borrowers income
    
    **Debt to Income Ratio**: how much debt the borrower had compared to their income (belowe 43% is usually considered good but different lenders have different standards)
    
    **Number of Accounts**: The number of accounts the borrower has (different lenders have different standards but 3-5 accounts are usually considered good. These accounts can be a mix of credit cards and loans)
    
    **Derogatory marks**: The count of negative items listed on your credit report such as late payments or foreclosure
    
    **Total debt**: The total amount of debt the borrower currently has

## Method

To create this model, first the data was read  from a csv file onto a dataframe. The X variable contained all the data except for loan status which was encompassed in the y variable. The X and y variables were split into training data and testing data using the train_test_split function. A LogisticRegression model was initialized using a random state of 1 and the model was fit using the X_train and y_train data. Predictions were made using the X_test data. The prediction were then compared to the y_test data to see how accuratly the model preformed.

A second model was creating with the same basis as the first model except that it used resampled data that was created by putting the regular data through the RandomOverSampler function. This was done to combat the imblalance issue. The regular data had 75,036 healthy loans points and 2,500 high-risk loans points so, after the data was resampled, there were 58,152 data points which represented both healthy and high-risk loans equally. 


## Results

* Machine Learning Model 1:
  * Image of table 1
  * For healthy loans(0), the model has an F1-score of 1.00 meaning it predicted all of the healthy loans correctly with the test data. For the high-risk loans(1), the model did pretty well with a score of 0.88 meaning it got 88% of the high-risk loans correct so the model does pretty well predicting both healthy and high-risk loans with a low chance of predicting high-risk loans incorrectly.
  *As shown in the support, the machine was given over 18,000 more data points to learn from than with high-risk loans.
  *This model scored a balanced accuracy score of 94.4%
  


* Machine Learning Model 2:
  * Image of table 2
  * This Logistic Regression model scored an F1-score of 0.99 for detecting both healthy and high-risk loans meaning it predicted 99% of the loans with very high accuracy.
  * As shown in the support column, the machine was given about equal amounts of both the healthy and high-risk loan data to learn from.
  *This model scored a balanced accuracy score of 99.4%

## Summary

Based on the results I would reccomend the resampled Logistic Regression model to be used as it provides a more accurate outcome with 99% accuracy. This model scored a balanced accuracy score of 99.4% which is 5% higher than for the regular data model. This model also and more balanced data which is important since predicting both 1 and 0 are equally as important because we do not want to give money to someone who is high-risk and we do not want to miss out giving a loan to someone who is low-risk. 

## References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC.
